toopher-pam
===========

`toopher-pam` provides a set of tools to enable Toopher-based PAM authentication
  

Install
-------

Install using one of our pre-built [release packages](https://github.com/toopher/toopher-pam/releases), or [build it yourself](https://github.com/toopher/toopher-pam/blob/master/BUILD.md).

Configure
---------

Configuring `toopher-pam` involves configuring the module itself and inserting it into a PAM-enabled application's authentication stack.

### Toopher

Configuration files live in `/etc/security/toopher` by default.  See the included [configuration file](https://github.com/toopher/toopher-pam/blob/master/config-files/config) for configuration options.  The defaults will suit most needs, but you do need to add Toopher API Requester credentials (available from our [client portal](https://dev.toopher.com)) to your Toopher credential file (usually found in `/etc/security/toopher/credentials`).  Please be sure to restrict access to the credential file's contents (but maintain accessibility for the `toopher-api-helper` utility).

### Pam

Like all PAM service modules, `toopher-pam` must be inserted into the authentication stack of PAM-enabled applications.  Unfortunately this can vary from one flavor of PAM to the next, but here are some example configurations.

#### pam-auth-update

The `.deb` supplied in our pre-built [release packages](https://github.com/toopher/toopher-pam/releases) uses `pam-auth-update` to automatically insert itself in the common authentication stack for Debian-based distros the support it (e.g. Ubuntu).  All a user needs to do is pair their account with Toopher (see below) and they'll immediately start receiving authentication requests via `toopher-pam`.

#### Other flavors

Configuration on systems that don't support `pam-auth-update` involves manually manipulating the authentication stack configurations (usually found in `/etc/pam.d/`).  The edits required will depend upon the existing stack (reference your system's PAM documentation for more details), but this typically involves inserting the `toopher-pam` module at the bottom of the stack and setting the previous terminal module as requisite.  For example, on RedHat-based distros many of the PAM application configurations (such as `sshd`) reference by inclusion the `password-auth` configuration, which consists of the following `auth` section entries:

```
auth        required      pam_env.so
auth        sufficient    pam_unix.so nullok try_first_pass
auth        requisite     pam_succeed_if.so uid >= 500 quiet
auth        required      pam_deny.so
```

This stack can be modified as follows to add `toopher-pam`:

```
auth        required      pam_env.so
auth        requisite     pam_unix.so nullok try_first_pass
auth        required      pam_toopher.so
```

In fact, our pre-built `rpms` include this configuration as `password+toopher-auth` in the `/etc/pam.d/` directory which can be used within individual application configuration stacks to provide authentication supplemented by `toopher-pam`'s capabilities.

Onboarding
----------
In order for a user to leverage `toopher-pam`'s capabilities, they will need to pair their account with Toopher.  The `toopher-pair` utility included with this package facilitates the pairing process and writes the necessary information into a configuration file in the user's home directory.  The utility's help message is reproduced below (invoke the tool with the `--help` option for the latest information):

```
usage: toopher-pair [-h] [--user USER] [--shared | --host-specific]
                    [--phrase PAIRING_PHRASE]

Pair an account with the Toopher app

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --user USER, -u USER  the user to pair (defaults to the current user,
                        specifying a user is usually only useful for the
                        superuser)
  --shared, -s          create a shared pairing instead of a host-specific
                        pairing
  --host-specific, -o   create a host-specific pairing instead of a shared
                        pairing (this is the default unless otherwise
                        specified in the system configuration file)
  --phrase PAIRING_PHRASE, -p PAIRING_PHRASE
                        a pairing phrase generated by the Toopher app (will
                        prompt if not supplied)
```

License
-------

This PAModule is based on [pam_python](http://ace-host.stuart.id.au/russell/files/pam_python/) by Russell Stuart.  This code inherits its use of the [Eclipse Public License v1.0](http://www.eclipse.org/legal/epl-v10.html)
